Add release notes for Python agent release v10.9.0. (#20457)
newrelic/docs-website: src/content/docs/release-notes/agent-release-notes/python-release-notes/python-agent-100900.mdx

---
subject: 'Python agent'
releaseDate: '2025-04-11'
version: 10.9.0
downloadLink: 'https://pypi.python.org/pypi/newrelic'

> features: ['Add Opentelemetry compatible datastore span attributes']

Reviewer: ```suggestion
features: ['Add OpenTelemetry compatible datastore span attributes']
```

bugs: ['Fix LangChain instrumentation for string response types', 'Disable Kombu instrumentation']
---

## Notes

> This release of the Python agent updates datastore span attribute names, fixes a bug in [LangChain](https://pypi.org/project/langchain/) instrumentation, and temporarily disables [Kombu](https://pypi.org/project/kombu/) instrumentation. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This release of the Python agent adds [OpenTelemetry](https://github.com/open-telemetry/semantic-conventions/blob/v1.24.0/docs/database/database-spans.md) compatible datastore span attribute names, fixes a bug in [LangChain](https://pypi.org/project/langchain/) instrumentation, and temporarily disables [Kombu](https://pypi.org/project/kombu/) instrumentation. 
```

Install the agent using `easy_install/pip/distribute` via the [Python Package Index](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/newrelic) or download it directly from the [New Relic download site](https://download.newrelic.com/python_agent/release).

## New features

> * Add Opentelemetry compatible datastore span attributes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Add OpenTelemetry compatible datastore span attributes
```

>   * The datastore span attributes are now more consistent with [Opentelemetry](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/languages/python/) naming conventions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * The datastore span attributes are now more consistent with [Opentelemetry](https://github.com/open-telemetry/semantic-conventions/blob/v1.24.0/docs/database/database-spans.md) naming conventions
```
